

===== PAGE 1 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction
Modeling Paradigm
Shaopeng Chen 1 Chuyue Xie 1 Huimin Ren 1 Shaozong Zhang 1 Han Zhang 1 Ruobing Cheng 1
Zhiqiang Cao 1 Zehao Ju 1 Yu Gao1 Jie Ding 1 Xiaodong Chen 1 Xuewu Jiao 1 Shuanglong Li 1 Lin Liu 1
Abstract
Traditional Deep Learning Recommendation
Models (DLRMs) face increasing bottlenecks in
performance and efficiency, often struggling with
generalization and long-sequence modeling. In-
spired by the scaling success of Large Language
Models (LLMs), we propose Generative Ranking
for Ads at Baidu (GRAB), an end-to-end genera-
tive framework for Click-Through Rate (CTR)
prediction. GRAB integrates a novel Causal
Action-aware Multi-channel Attention (CamA)
mechanism to effectively capture temporal dy-
namics and specific action signals within user
behavior sequences. Full-scale online deploy-
ment demonstrates that GRAB significantly out-
performs established DLRMs, delivering a 3.05%
increase in revenue and a 3.49% rise in CTR. Fur-
thermore, the model demonstrates desirable scal-
ing behavior: its expressive power shows a mono-
tonic and approximately linear improvement as
longer interaction sequences are utilized.
1. Introduction
For a long time, Deep Learning Recommendation Models
(DLRMs) (Naumov et al., 2019) have remained the main-
stream choice in industrial recommender systems, espe-
cially for advertising Click-Through Rate (CTR) prediction
(Mudigere et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2018; Cheng et al., 2016;
Guo et al., 2017; Bai et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2017; Ma
et al., 2018a), due to their strong capability to process high-
cardinality sparse features and to model feature interactions
with expressive neural networks. However, as user behavior
data grows exponentially, traditional DLRMs face increas-
ing bottlenecks in bothperformanceandefficiency(detailed
discussions in Appendix A.1). Fundamentally, DLRMs rely
on rule-based feature engineering and suffer from the in-
herent flaw of “strong memory, weak reasoning” (Cheng
1Baidu Inc., Beijing, China. Correspondence to: Shuanglong
Li<lishuanglong@baidu.com>.
Preprint. February 4, 2026.
et al., 2016; Wu et al., 2024). They often fail to generalize to
new ads or scenarios that require logical inference, and their
gains exhibit diminishing returns: further improvements typ-
ically demand exponentially increasing computational costs,
rendering long-term deployment and iteration economically
unsustainable (Zhang et al., 2024b; Mudigere et al., 2022).
Departing from the structural constraints of DLRMs, the rise
of Large Language Models (LLMs) has been driven by scal-
ing laws (Kaplan et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2024a;b), where
performance predictably improves with increased parame-
ters, data, and compute. This success has inspired the exten-
sion of scaling laws to recommendation systems, fostering
the LLMs for Recommendation (LLM4Rec) paradigm (Wu
et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024a)(see Appendix A.2 for a taxon-
omy). A key innovation within this framework is Generative
Recommendation (GR)(Li et al., 2024a; Rajput et al., 2023).
Representative works like HSTU (Zhai et al., 2024) formu-
late recommendation as autoregressive sequence prediction,
effectively modeling long user sequences to capture tempo-
ral dynamics (Zhou et al., 2018; 2019; Kang & McAuley,
2018; Sun et al., 2019). Crucially, GR exhibits scaling
properties similar to LLMs, offering a practical path to tran-
scend the performance bottlenecks of traditional DLRMs
(Naumov et al., 2019; Zhai et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024a).
Despite these theoretical advancements, deploying GR mod-
els in high-throughput industrial systems remains challeng-
ing due to strict online serving and optimization constraints.
The primary obstacle iscomputational efficiency. Stan-
dard Transformer training requires extensive padding for
variable-length sequences, resulting in significant compu-
tational waste (Vaswani et al., 2017; Krell et al., 2021).
While sequence packing—a common Natural Language Pro-
cessing (NLP) technique for concatenating multiple short
sequences—effectively mitigates this issue (Krell et al.,
2021), its straightforward application to recommendation
systems triggers a more subtle yet damaging failure mode:
Distribution Skew(Baylor et al., 2017; Polyzotis et al., 2019;
Sculley et al., 2015; Han et al., 2025).
In recommendations, packing a user’s full history creates
mini-batches with excessive intra-user correlation, which
violates the i.i.d. assumption typically relied on by SGD-
1
arXiv:2602.01865v2  [cs.IR]  3 Feb 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
style optimization (Doan et al., 2020). This skew (details in
Appendix D.1) causes sparse parameters (i.e., embedding
tables) to overfit specific users, hindering the generalization
of dense parameters (e.g., Transformer weights responsible
for inference) (Naumov et al., 2019; Li et al., 2024b). This
reveals a fundamental tension: sparse parameters require
diverse, uncorrelated samples for robust “memorization”,
whereas dense parameters benefit from long, coherent con-
texts for sequential “reasoning” (Cheng et al., 2016; Kang
& McAuley, 2018; Sun et al., 2019). This misalignment
implies that standard synchronous training on packed se-
quences may lead to suboptimal convergence due to the
conflicting gradient requirements of the sparse and dense
components (Yu et al., 2020).
Meanwhile, existing GR models typically ignore data het-
erogeneity, resulting in performance limitations (see Ap-
pendix A.3 for detailed discussion). To overcome these chal-
lenges, we propose Generative Ranking for Ads at Baidu
(GRAB), an end-to-end sequential training and inference
framework for industrial-grade CTR prediction. GRAB in-
troduces three core innovations to reconcile the demands
for performance, efficiency, and training stability:
• End-to-End Framework: We introduce GRAB, an
end-to-end framework that combines the strengths of
DLRMs and GR. Specifically, it fuses the large-scale
sparse feature engineering inherent to DLRMs with
the sequential inference capabilities of GR, thereby
achieving a balance between explicit memorization
and implicit reasoning.
• Causal Action-aware Multi-channel Attention
(CamA) mechanism: We propose CamA, a multi-
channel, action-aware mechanism designed to boost
model performance by modeling both user exposure
and interaction signals, improving generalization and
robustness across tasks and scenarios.
• Sequence-Then-Sparse (STS) Training: To address
distribution skew from sequence packing, we propose
STS, a training strategy that decouples the optimiza-
tion of dense parameters and sparse embeddings. This
resolves their gradient conflict, stabilizes training, and
improves convergence without extra compute, enabling
high-throughput industrial deployment of GR.
We have completed a comprehensive evaluation of GRAB
in Baidu’s commercial advertising CTR ranking business.
In offline comparisons, GRAB outperformed mainstream in-
dustrial DLRMs as well as emerging GR models (achieving
0.19% relative improvement over the best baseline). Com-
pared to the production DLRM baseline, GRAB achieved
an AUC uplift of approximately 2 basis points in online A/B
testing, resulting in a 3.05% increase in CPM and a 3.49% in-
crease in CTR. Furthermore, scaling analysis demonstrates
that the model’s AUC improves monotonically with both
model capacity and the length of behavior sequences, indi-
cating that the architecture can stably benefit from modeling
longer behavior chains without saturation.
2. Related Works
DLRM-based industrial CTR prediction.Industrial CTR
prediction has long been dominated by DLRMs, which em-
bed high-cardinality categorical fields and model feature
interactions via MLP/Cross-style modules (Naumov et al.,
2019; Cheng et al., 2016; Guo et al., 2017; Wang et al.,
2017). To incorporate user histories, production systems
often attach explicit behavior encoders to DLRMs, e.g.,
target-attention/memory based models such as DIN, DIEN,
MIMN, and SIM (Zhou et al., 2018; 2019; Pi et al., 2019;
2020), as well as stronger industrial variants like TWIN (Si
et al., 2024). Despite their effectiveness, these approaches
still heavily rely on hand-crafted statistics and engineered
cross features (He et al., 2014; Cheng et al., 2016), and typi-
cally compress long histories into fixed-size vectors, making
it difficult to scale to long sequences and heterogeneous ac-
tion signals (Pi et al., 2019).
GR.Recent GR work models recommendation as causal
Transformer-based sequential prediction, enabling long-
context modeling and exhibiting favorable scaling behavior
(Zhai et al., 2024; Chai et al., 2025; Petrov & Macdonald,
2023). However, deploying GR in the industrial advertising
CTR stack still presents challenges in the following aspects:
(i) bridging large-scale sparse feature engineering with to-
kenized sequential modeling (Han et al., 2025; Chai et al.,
2025), (ii) modeling heterogeneous action semantics often
discarded by naive homogeneous serialization (Zhai et al.,
2024), and (iii) training instability introduced by sequence
packing (distribution skew) under strict optimization con-
straints (Krell et al., 2021). Detailed discussion of GR and
comparisons between GRAB and related work are given in
Appendix B.
3. Methodology
3.1. DLRMs
The traditional DLRM architecture, as shown in Fig. 1, fol-
lows a modular processing pipeline for CTR prediction,
handling raw features from users, candidate ads, and con-
textual signals. The pipeline involves: (a) expanding cate-
gorical features into fixed fields via feature engineering, (b)
mapping these fields through hashing to obtain discrete ID
vectors for embedding lookup in a Sparse Parameter Server
Table(PSTable), and (c) concatenating and normalizing the
retrieved embeddings to form a fixed-length flattened vector.
This unified representation is then fed into an MLP, typi-
cally enhanced with a gating network, to model high-order
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
feature interactions and generate the final CTR prediction.
gender
User
user_id brand
AD
ad_id device
Context
location behavior
Sparse PSTable
CTR Head
Gate & MLP
Concat & Batch Normalization
Figure 1.The traditional DLRM architecture: sparse features are
hashed to IDs and embedded via PSTable, and then concatenated
into a fixed-length flattened vector for CTR prediction.
3.2. Overall Architecture of GRAB
GRAB, with the overall architecture shown in Fig. 2, is
designed to model user behavior history sequences in an
end-to-end manner, as applied in scenarios like CTR pre-
diction. GRAB follows a three-stage pipeline: (i)sparse
feature layer; (ii)dense tokenizer; and (iii)sequence mod-
eling layer. Given raw behavior logs, GRAB first converts
heterogeneous categorical signals into sparse IDs at the
event level, then tokenizes each event into a dense repre-
sentation, and finally applies a sequence model to estimate
the click probability of candidate ads. GRAB uses its dense
representation calculated from the dense tokenizer to bridge
DLRM-style sparse feature engineering and GR-style se-
quential modeling, enabling end-to-end training and infer-
ence along a single, unified computation path from input
to output, thereby improving CTR prediction performance
through end-to-end sequential modeling of event-level user
behaviors.
Sparse Feature Layer.The sparse feature layer (details in
Appendix C.1) processes raw logs into time-ordered event
sequences. Each event’s categorical fields are converted into
sparse IDs using standard DLRM feature engineering (Sec-
tion 3.1), yielding a structured sequence of events annotated
with field-wise IDs.
Dense Tokenizer.Unlike DLRM, which collapses field
embeddings into a fixed-length, order-agnostic vector for
pointwise processing, GRAB preserves the temporal event
structure. It aggregates per-event field embeddings and
projects them into Rdmodel to form sequential event tokens
(Appendix C.2), resulting in a time-ordered token sequence.
This sequence serves as the input to a subsequent Trans-
former, thereby enabling the modeling of long-range depen-
dencies and interest drift.
Autoregressive-like Sequence Modeling Layer.Built
on sequence packing (Section 3.3.1), heterogeneous tokens
(Section 3.3.2), and action-aware relative attention bias (Sec-
tion 3.3.3), our core contribution is theCamAmechanism
(Section 3.3.4). CamA integrates a multi-channel design
for parallel processing of diverse behaviors and inherits
action-aware contextualization from RAB, providing a uni-
fied and efficient framework for modeling complex user
interest patterns across scenarios.
3.3. Autoregressive-like Sequence Modeling Layer
Following the dense tokenizer, this layer is designed to cap-
ture the temporal dependencies and dynamic evolution of
user interests, which takes the sequence of dense event to-
kens generated by the preceding layer as input (as described
in Appendix C.3). Formally, for a user u, the input se-
quence consists of the behavior history Ebeh ={e beh
t }Tu
t=1
and the candidate advertisements Ead ={e ad
i }Nu
i=1, where
ebeh
t ,e ad
i ∈R dmodel are the dense embeddings of the t-th be-
havior event and thei-th candidate ad, respectively,Tu is the
behavior history length, and Nu is the number of candidate
ads.
3.3.1. SEQUENCEPACKING ANDUSER-ISOLATED
CAUSALMASK
In industrial training logs, as shown in the left image of
Fig. 3a., a mini-batch is typically formed by sampling Bins
impression instances. Each instance contains a variable-
length token sequence composed of (i) a subsequence of
the user’s historical behavior tokens and (ii) target adver-
tisement tokens to be scored. A straightforward batching
strategy pads every instance to a fixed lengthLmax, yielding
a dense tensor with dimensionsB ins×Lmax×dmodel,
which introduces substantial computational waste when
most instances are much shorter thanL max.
To eliminate such padding overhead while preserving the
temporal semantics, GRAB performs sequence packing by
grouping tokens by user. Specifically, tokens from multi-
ple impression instances belonging to the same user u are
merged into a single contiguous token segment, while seg-
ments of different users are strictly separated. Within each
user segment, all tokens are stably sorted by timestamp so
that the packed segment forms a single timeline for sequen-
tial modeling. After packing, the batch is represented as one
long packed tensor H=Pack(E beh,E ad)∈R 1×L×dmodel,
where L denotes the total packed length across all users in
the mini-batch.
For convenience, we associate each packed position p∈
{1, . . . , L} with (i) asegment id σ(p)∈U B indicating
which user it belongs to, and (ii) alocal time index ℓ(p)∈
{1, . . . , Lσ(p)}within that user segment.
User-isolated causal mask.On the packed tensor H, we
construct an additive attention mask Mpack ∈R L×L that
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Action-Aware Attn
Add & Norm
gender
User
user_id brand
AD
ad_id device
Context
location behavior
Sparse PSTable
MLP & Gate
Causal Masked Transformer 
CTR Head Tokens
× N
Tokens
......
Action-aware MLA
Add & Norm
FFN
Add & Norm
Target-Token Mix
Sequence Packing
Tokens
Scaled Dot Product
RAB
MLA
Gate Layer
......
......
Target-Token Mix
... ... ......
User-level channel split
Figure 2.Overview of GRAB’s end-to-end CTR prediction pipeline: (1) Tokenizing raw fields via a sparse PSTable and fusing them into
event tokens. (2) Packing tokens per user with causal and heterogeneous masks. (3) Processing through N Transformer layers equipped
with the Causal Action-aware Multi-channel Attention (CamA) mechanism. (4) Final CTR prediction from the output representations.
enforces two constraints: (1)user isolation(no cross-user
attention), and (2)causalitywithin each user’s timeline (no
future leakage). Formally, for query position p and key
positionq,
Mpack
p,q =
(
1,ifσ(p) =σ(q)andℓ(q)≤ℓ(p),
0,otherwise. (1)
This yields a block-diagonal lower-triangular structure(as
shown in Fig. 3b), where each block corresponds to one user
segment.
3.3.2. HETEROGENEOUSBEHAVIORTOKENS AND
HETEROGENEOUSVISIBILITYMASK
After sequence packing, for each user u, we obtain a user-
isolated, time-ordered packed stream with its causal mask
Mpack. To further reduce redundancy in the packed his-
tory while preserving the information needed for scoring
the current candidate, we instantiate two token views at
each packed timestamp t:the partial token (history)
ht ∈R dmodel, which retains only time-varying informa-
tion that is useful for representing history and discards static
or highly repetitive fields (e.g., user id) that would other-
wise be duplicated across historical steps and could lead to
overfitting; andthe full token (candidate) h′
t ∈R dmodel,
which retains the complete information required to score
the candidate at time t, including the static fields omit-
ted from the partial history view. We then interleave
them to form the heterogeneous packed sequence: Hu =
h1,h ′
1,h 2,h ′
2, . . . ,hTu ,h ′
Tu

.
Heterogeneous Visibility Mask.On top of the user-isolated
causal constraint encoded by M pack, we apply a mask-
rewriting operator R(·) to obtain the heterogeneous visi-
bility mask M het. Concretely, R(·) rewrites the visibility
pattern according to the token types in the following way:
(i) partial (P) tokens only attend to partial history tokens;
and (ii) full (F) tokens attend to partial history tokens and
themselves, but never attend to other full tokens. Formally,
index positions in Hu by n∈ {1, . . . ,2T u}, we define the
time index τ(n) =⌈n/2⌉ and token type κ(n) =P if n is
odd, otherwise κ(n) =F . Then the heterogeneous mask
(as shown in Fig. 4) is
Mhet
p,q =



1, κ(p) =P, κ(q) =P, τ(q)≤τ(p),
1, κ(p) =F, κ(q) =P, τ(q)≤τ(p),
1, κ(p) =F, p=q,
0,otherwise.
(2)
3.3.3. ACTION-AWAREATTENTION: RELATIVE
ENCODING ANDEFFICIENTCOMPUTATION
On top of the heterogeneous behavior tokens and the het-
erogeneous visibility mask M het, we further adopt a action-
aware RAB(i.e., relative attention bias) causal attention
mechanism. It augments standard multi-head self-attention
with three designs: a causal mask to prevent future leak-
age, a dual sliding-window visibility constraint to support
streaming-style training, and a query-aware relative bias
that enables the query to directly interact with relative posi-
tion/time/action signals.
Action-aware relative attention logits.Given a query qi
and a keyk j, the attention logit is computed as
wi,j =q ⊤
i ·(k j +P os i,j +Action i,j +T ime i,j),(3)
where P osi,j, Actioni,j, and T imei,j are learnable embed-
dings derived from relative position, relative action, and
relative time, respectively. For continuous or large-range
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
PADPAD
PAD
PAD
PAD
PAD
PAD
PAD
Impression Samples
Packing
(a)Sequence Packing
 (b)User-isolated Causal Mask
Figure 3.Sequence packing and user-isolated causal masking in GRAB. (a) Instead of padding each impression instance to a fixed length
Lmax, tokens from multiple impressions are concatenated within each user and different users are kept in disjoint segments, yielding a
single packed sequence of length Ntoken for compute-efficient batching. (b) The user-isolated causal mask exhibits a block-diagonal
lower-triangular pattern, so each token can only attend to past tokens within the same user segment, enforcing both user isolation and
temporal causality.
signals (e.g., action statistics or play durations), we first
discretize them into buckets and then perform embedding
lookup.
Compared with a query-agnostic relative bias (e.g., wi,j =
q⊤
i kj +P os i,j +· · · ), Eq. 3 makes the relative signals
action-aware via the interaction q⊤
i P osi,j, q⊤
i Actioni,j,
and q⊤
i T imei,j, allowing the model to adaptively empha-
size different contextual relations under different queries
(i.e., target ads).
Partial T oken Full T oken
Figure 4.Heterogeneous behavior tokens and heterogeneous vis-
ibility mask M het (blue entries). Partial tokens attend only to
partial-history tokens up to the current time, while full tokens
attend to partial-history tokens up to their time index and to them-
selves, but never to other full tokens, preventing duplicated static
information from propagating along time.
Causal mask with dual sliding windows.We enforce
causality and further restrict attention using combined time
and length windows. The mask is defined as Mrab
p,q = 1 if
q≤p and the distance p−q does not exceed the length
sliding-window limitL w; otherwiseM rab
p,q = 0.
This serves two key industrial purposes: (1) it bounds
per-token computation, guaranteeing stable through-
put/latency over growing behavior histories; (2) it matches
the online training paradigm—events arrive incrementally,
and the model updates attention context on the fly without
reprocessing the full sequence, boosting training efficiency
and serving practicality.
Efficient computation.The naive implementation of
Eq. 3 would yield an O(L2dmodel) intermediate tensor,
which is prohibitively memory-intensive in practice. We
adopt the optimization in (Golovneva et al., 2024) to re-
order the computation. We define codebooks Bpos/act/time ∈
RN∗×dmodel and bucketized indices pi,j, ai,j, ti,j. Then Eq. 3
can be equivalently written as:
wi,j =q ⊤
i kj + (spos
i )[pi,j] + (sact
i )[ai,j] + (stime
i )[ti,j].
(4)
where spos
i =q ⊤
i Bpos, sact
i =q ⊤
i Bact, and stime
i =
q⊤
i Btime. In practice, we first compute the projection vec-
tors s∗
i , then obtain relative terms via fast gather operations.
This completely avoids the large L×L×d model tensor,
dramatically reducing peak memory and improving compu-
tational efficiency.
3.3.4. MULTI-CHANNELATTENTION
While the action-aware RAB attention (Section 3.3.3) en-
hances each individual attention logit with relative posi-
tion/action/time signals, it still treats the packed stream as
a single mixed sequence. However, in industrial logs, user
behaviors are highly heterogeneous (e.g., spanning different
time windows or encompassing different behavior types),
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
...
...
...
... Relative Time Relative PositionRelative Action
Embedding & Sum
Bucketize Bucketize
Figure 5.Action-aware relative attention bias (RAB) with effi-
cient computation. Left: a causal mask with dual sliding windows,
which limits each query to attend only to recent past tokens vis-
ible within the sliding-window. Right: the action-aware relative
encoding pipeline: relative time, position, and action signals are
bucketized (as needed), embedded, summed, and injected to the
attention logits.
and different behavioral subsets often exhibit distinct tem-
poral dynamics and predictive value. A straightforward
design is to flatten all tokens into a single sequence and
apply causal self-attention, yet this couples heterogeneous
sources into one interaction graph and incurs a quadratic
cost (e.g., O((n+m) 2) for two sources with lengths n
and m). To improve both modeling effectiveness and ef-
ficiency, we further introduce theCausal Action-aware
Multi-channel Attention (CamA)mechanism, which in-
tegrates a multi-channel design, conceptually analogous to
multi-head attention but with channel-specific visibility con-
straints. We therefore model each channel with an indepen-
dent causal self-attention stack, and fuse the channel-wise
representations via a lightweight gated mixing module. Let
C={1, . . . , C} denote the channel set. For each user, chan-
nel c provides a token sequence X(c) ∈R Tc×d, and we
append the shared target tokenX ad ∈R d:
S(c) = [X(c);x tar]∈R (Tc+1)×d, t ⋆ =T c + 1.(5)
Each channel is equipped with its own causal visibility mask
M(c), and is encoded independently:
H(c,ℓ+1) = Layer(c)
ℓ

˜H(c,ℓ);M (c)

,
H(c,0) =S (c), c∈ C.
(6)
Target-token gated mixing.To enable cross-channel in-
formation sharing while keeping computation lightweight,
we perform mixing only on the target position t⋆ at each
layer. The mixed representation ˜h(c,ℓ) is obtained by first
computing channel-wise gating weightsβ (c,ℓ) and then ag-
gregating information from all other channels:
˜h(c,ℓ) =h (c,ℓ) +
X
i∈C\{c}
β(i,ℓ) ⊙h (i,ℓ).(7)
This updated representation replaces h(c,ℓ) at position t⋆,
forming the updated channel representation ˜H(c,ℓ) used in
(6). Finally, the concatenated last-layer target representa-
tions from all channels are used for CTR prediction.
3.4. Sequence Then Sparse Training
While sequence packing (Section 3.3.1) significantly en-
hances computational efficiency, it introduces a critical chal-
lenge: distribution skew. Since samples within a packed
mini-batch belong to the same user, the high intra-user cor-
relation leads to redundant updates for specific sparse IDs,
causing the model to overfit to specific user-ad interactions,
rather than learning generalizable patterns. To mitigate
this, we propose the Sequence Then Sparse (STS) training
paradigm (detailed discussions in Appendix D), a two-stage
decoupled optimization strategy that balances long-range
sequential modeling with robust sparse feature learning.
3.4.1. STAGEI: SEQUENCEMODELING(SEQUENCE
PHASE)
The first stage focuses on capturing the evolution of user in-
terests and temporal dependencies. We perform end-to-end
autoregressive-like learning on the packed user sequences
Z, which include candidate tokens and their historical tra-
jectories. In this phase, we optimize the dense tokenizer
and the causal Transformer, while keeping the Sparse Em-
bedding Table Φ frozen. By freezing Φ, we stabilize the
token space, forcing the Transformer to focus exclusively
on the relational dynamics between events rather than over-
memorizing specific ID features.
3.4.2. STAGEII: SPARSEFEATURELEARNING(SPARSE
PHASE)
The second stage is designed to refine the discrete repre-
sentations, particularly for long-tail IDs. In this phase, we
revert to a non-sequential format, treating each sample as
an independent user-ad exposure to break the distribution
skewness. This stage optimizes the sparse embeddings Φ,
which act as a robust corrector for the gradient accumula-
tion amplified by sequence packing. It ensures that the basic
feature representations remain accurate and unbiased across
the entire traffic distribution.
4. System Deployment
GRAB has been successfully deployed in a large-scale feed
ad ranking system, handling billions of daily requests. Un-
like conventional memory-bound DLRMs, GR is markedly
compute-bound due to the quadratic complexity of Trans-
former self-attention. To satisfy stringent latency require-
ments, we implemented a co-designed hardware-software
architecture. Due to space constraints, we provide the com-
prehensive system overview (Fig. 8) and detailed deploy-
ment optimizations in Appendix E.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
5. Experiment
5.1. Overall Performance Comparison
We first compared the performance of GRAB against
state-of-the-art recommendation models on the Baidu
real-world industrial dataset. The training data, derived
from the Baidu real recommendation advertising scene, con-
tains billions of users, exposure logs, and click logs. The test
set includes millions of users, billions of exposure logs, and
millions of click logs. The baselines encompass both DL-
RMs and GR models, including: DIN (Zhou et al., 2018),
which models short -term user behavior with target atten-
tion; SIM(Soft) (Pi et al., 2020), a sequential model that
uses soft-search to encode user interests; TWIN (Si et al.,
2024), which extends multi-head target attention from ESU
to GSU; HSTU (Zhai et al., 2024), an efficient model for
long-sequence behavior modeling; and LONGER (Chai
et al., 2025), a Transformer -based architecture designed
for ultra-long behavior sequences. Experimental results
are presented in Table 1: GRAB outperforms all other base-
lines, achieving a 0.19% relative improvement over the most
competitive model. Meanwhile, Fig. 6a illustrates the per-
formance of different models across varying lengths of user
behavior sequences. GRAB surpasses other recommenda-
tion models at all sequence lengths, with its performance
gains becoming more pronounced as the sequence length
increases.
Table 1.Overall performance in industrial settings
Model AUC
DIN 0.83309
SIM Soft 0.83520
TWIN 0.83556
HSTU 0.83590
LONGER 0.83615
GRAB-small 0.83661
GRAB-standard 0.83772
5.2. Scaling Analysis
We evaluate model performance across different capacity
scales by independently scaling the number of Transformer
blocks(nlayer), the number of attention heads(nhead), and
the feature dimension of the model( dmodel) in Table 2,
Fig. 6b presents the test-set performance of the GRAB
model under varying configurations (i.e., nlayer, nhead and
dmodel). These results demonstrate that increasing model
capacity effectively improves model performance. We also
found that as the model capacity increases, the performance
improvement on longer user behavior sequences becomes
more significant. Moreover, no significant saturation trend is
observed within the current range of configurations, which
also confirms the strong scalability of the GRAB model.
Table 2.Comparison of models with different settings
Model Params Setting
GRAB2l−2h−64d 6.51M n layer=2, nhead=2, dmodel=64
GRAB4l−2h−64d 6.67M n layer=4, nhead=2, dmodel=64
GRAB6l−2h−64d 6.83M n layer=6, nhead=2, dmodel=64
GRAB2l−4h−64d 6.48M n layer=2, nhead=4, dmodel=64
GRAB4l−4h−64d 6.63M n layer=4, nhead=4, dmodel=64
GRAB4l−4h−128d 7.05M n layer=4, nhead=4, dmodel=128
GRAB4l−4h−256d 8.13M n layer=4, nhead=4, dmodel=256
GRAB4l−4h−512d 11.27M n layer=4, nhead=4, dmodel=512
5.3. Ablation Study
Heterogeneous Tokens.We conduct ablation studies on
heterogeneous representations with three configurations:
GRAB with heterogeneous, only partial, or only full tokens
(Table 3). Results show that heterogeneous representations
achieve the best performance. Using only partial tokens
leads to significant degradation, confirming that full fea-
ture representations are more beneficial for target scoring.
Notably, using only full tokens also degrades performance,
suggesting that artificially designed statistical features can
introduce confusion and impair sequence modeling.
Table 3.Ablation studies of GRAB
Model AUC
GRAB0.83772
GRAB w/ Partial Token 0.83492
GRAB w/ Full Token 0.83749
GRAB w/o relative pos 0.83768
GRAB w/o relative time 0.83743
GRAB w/o relative action 0.83724
GRAB w/o Multi-channel 0.83743
GRAB w/o Target-token mix 0.83768
GRABsparse 0.83614
GRABsparse w/o STS 0.83549
Action-aware Attention.We ablate three components of
GRAB’s Action-aware Attention: relative position, time,
and action. The results (Table 3) show that removing any
of these components degrades performance. The decline
is more pronounced for time and action than for position,
indicating that historical sequences are more sensitive to
behavioral and temporal signals. We also analyze the atten-
tion weight distribution across buckets defined by relative
position/time differences (smaller values denote more recent
tokens). As shown in Figure 7, weights decrease as bucket
values increase, confirming that more recent behaviors better
reflect user interest and receive higher weights. For relative
action, we compare positive (click) and negative (non-click)
labels. The weight distribution is highly skewed: positive
labels account for 88% of the total weight, versus only 12%
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
(a)Overall Performance
 (b)Scaling Performance
Figure 6.DLRMs vs. GRs across different user behavior sequence lengths (a), with a +0.1% improvement in AUC, indicating a significant
enhancement. GRABs comparison in different parameter scale(b)
for negative labels. This suggests that incorporating more
positive feedback could further improve sequence modeling.
Figure 7.The weight distribution of action-aware attention in
relative postion and relative time.
Multi-channel Attention.To verify the effectiveness of
multi-channel attention in sequence modeling, we conduct
the following settings: 1) the GRAB model without multi-
channel attention, that is, using a single channel for se-
quence modeling, 2) remain the multi-channel attention and
only remove the target token mix component. As shown in
Table 3, both configurations have varying degrees of per-
formance degradation, indicating that each component is
indispensable. In terms of performance, multi-channel atten-
tion is crucial, and adding the target token mix component
can further improve performance.
STS Training.We evaluate the STS paradigm by com-
paring GRAB’s second-stage training with and without se-
quence modeling for sparse feature learning. With STS,
sparse embeddings are updated through sequence modeling
on packed user behavior sequences; without STS, the same
batch data is treated as independent exposures. Results (as
shown in Table 3) show that STS brings significant accuracy
gains in sparse feature learning, confirming the efficacy of
the two-stage training. This demonstrates that STS allevi-
ates the distribution skew and overfitting caused by direct
sequence-packed training.
5.4. Online A/B Test
To assess the online performance of GRAB, we deployed
it in Baidu home feed scenario of Baidu and compared its
performance with the current online DLRM model. The
experiment used 10% of the main traffic and remained on-
line for about a month. Online evaluation shows that GRAB
delivered 3.49% improvement in CTR and 3.05% improve-
ment in CPM, which indicates that GRAB achieves more
accurate advertising estimation and brings considerable rev-
enue increments. Notably, GRAB has already been fully
deployed on Baidu, and the online inference costs on par
with the previous online DLRM model.
6. Conclusion
We propose GRAB, an end-to-end generative ranking frame-
work that integrates a novel CamA mechanism to effec-
tively capture temporal dynamics and specific action signals
within user behavior sequences. On Baidu billion-scale in-
dustrial dataset, GRAB establishes a new state-of-the-art,
outperforming DLRM and other GR baselines. Ablation
studies validate the necessity of its key components, and
our proposed STS training paradigm effectively mitigates
distribution shift. Scaling analysis indicates continued gains
from larger models and longer sequences. Finally, full on-
line A/B testing in Baidu home feed ads shows that GRAB
boosts CTR by 3.49% and CPM by 3.05%, leading to full
production deployment. Further discussion of this work can
be found in the Appendix F.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
References
Agarwal, S., Yan, C., Zhang, Z., and Venkataraman, S. Bag-
pipe: Accelerating deep recommendation model training.
InProceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating Sys-
tems Principles, pp. 348–363, 2023.
Bai, J., Geng, X., Deng, J., Xia, Z., Jiang, H., Yan, G.,
and Liang, J. A comprehensive survey on advertising
click-through rate prediction algorithm.The Knowledge
Engineering Review, 40:e3, 2025.
Bao, K., Zhang, J., Zhang, Y ., Wang, W., Feng, F., and He,
X. Tallrec: An effective and efficient tuning framework to
align large language model with recommendation. InPro-
ceedings of the 17th ACM conference on recommender
systems, pp. 1007–1014, 2023.
Baylor, D., Breck, E., Cheng, H.-T., Fiedel, N., Foo, C. Y .,
Haque, Z., Haykal, S., Ispir, M., Jain, V ., Koc, L., et al.
Tfx: A tensorflow-based production-scale machine learn-
ing platform. InProceedings of the 23rd ACM SIGKDD
international conference on knowledge discovery and
data mining, pp. 1387–1395, 2017.
Cao, Y ., Mehta, N., Yi, X., Keshavan, R. H., Heldt, L.,
Hong, L., Chi, E., and Sathiamoorthy, M. Aligning large
language models with recommendation knowledge. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: NAACL 2024, pp. 1051–1066, 2024.
Chai, Z., Ren, Q., Xiao, X., Yang, H., Han, B., Zhang, S.,
Chen, D., Lu, H., Zhao, W., Yu, L., et al. Longer: Scaling
up long sequence modeling in industrial recommenders.
InProceedings of the Nineteenth ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems, pp. 247–256, 2025.
Chen, J., Chi, L., Peng, B., and Yuan, Z. Hllm: Enhancing
sequential recommendations via hierarchical large lan-
guage models for item and user modeling.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.12740, 2024.
Cheng, H.-T., Koc, L., Harmsen, J., Shaked, T., Chandra,
T., Aradhye, H., Anderson, G., Corrado, G., Chai, W.,
Ispir, M., et al. Wide & deep learning for recommender
systems. InProceedings of the 1st workshop on deep
learning for recommender systems, pp. 7–10, 2016.
Covington, P., Adams, J., and Sargin, E. Deep neural net-
works for youtube recommendations. InProceedings of
the 10th ACM conference on recommender systems, pp.
191–198, 2016.
Di Palma, D., Biancofiore, G. M., Anelli, V . W., Narducci,
F., Di Noia, T., and Di Sciascio, E. Evaluating chatgpt
as a recommender system: A rigorous approach.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.03613, 2023.
Doan, T. T., Nguyen, L. M., Pham, N. H., and Romberg, J.
Finite-time analysis of stochastic gradient descent under
markov randomness.arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10973,
2020.
Geng, B., Huan, Z., Zhang, X., He, Y ., Zhang, L., Yuan, F.,
Zhou, J., and Mo, L. Breaking the length barrier: Llm-
enhanced ctr prediction in long textual user behaviors.
InProceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, pp. 2311–2315, 2024.
Golovneva, O., Wang, T., Weston, J., and Sukhbaatar, S.
Contextual position encoding: Learning to count what’s
important.arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.18719, 2024.
Guo, H., Tang, R., Ye, Y ., Li, Z., and He, X. Deepfm: a
factorization-machine based neural network for ctr pre-
diction.arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.04247, 2017.
Han, R., Yin, B., Chen, S., Jiang, H., Jiang, F., Li, X., Ma,
C., Huang, M., Li, X., Jing, C., et al. Mtgr: Industrial-
scale generative recommendation framework in meituan.
InProceedings of the 34th ACM International Conference
on Information and Knowledge Management, pp. 5731–
5738, 2025.
He, X., Pan, J., Jin, O., Xu, T., Liu, B., Xu, T., Shi, Y .,
Atallah, A., Herbrich, R., Bowers, S., et al. Practical
lessons from predicting clicks on ads at facebook. In
Proceedings of the eighth international workshop on data
mining for online advertising, pp. 1–9, 2014.
He, Z., Xie, Z., Jha, R., Steck, H., Liang, D., Feng, Y ., Ma-
jumder, B. P., Kallus, N., and McAuley, J. Large language
models as zero-shot conversational recommenders. In
Proceedings of the 32nd ACM international conference
on information and knowledge management, pp. 720–730,
2023.
Hou, Y ., Mu, S., Zhao, W. X., Li, Y ., Ding, B., and Wen,
J.-R. Towards universal sequence representation learning
for recommender systems. InProceedings of the 28th
ACM SIGKDD conference on knowledge discovery and
data mining, pp. 585–593, 2022.
Hou, Y ., He, Z., McAuley, J., and Zhao, W. X. Learning
vector-quantized item representation for transferable se-
quential recommenders. InProceedings of the ACM Web
Conference 2023, pp. 1162–1171, 2023.
Jia, J., Wang, Y ., Li, Y ., Chen, H., Bai, X., Liu, Z., Liang,
J., Chen, Q., Li, H., Jiang, P., et al. Learn: Knowledge
adaptation from large language model to recommendation
for practical industrial application. InProceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 39,
pp. 11861–11869, 2025.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Kang, W.-C. and McAuley, J. Self-attentive sequential
recommendation. In2018 IEEE international conference
on data mining (ICDM), pp. 197–206. IEEE, 2018.
Kaplan, J., McCandlish, S., Henighan, T., Brown, T. B.,
Chess, B., Child, R., Gray, S., Radford, A., Wu, J., and
Amodei, D. Scaling laws for neural language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08361, 2020.
Krell, M. M., Kosec, M., Perez, S. P., and Fitzgibbon, A.
Efficient sequence packing without cross-contamination:
Accelerating large language models without impacting
performance.arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.02027, 2021.
Li, L., Zhang, Y ., Liu, D., and Chen, L. Large language
models for generative recommendation: A survey and
visionary discussions. InProceedings of the 2024 Joint
International Conference on Computational Linguistics,
Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING
2024), pp. 10146–10159, 2024a.
Li, R., Deng, W., Cheng, Y ., Yuan, Z., Zhang, J., and Yuan,
F. Exploring the upper limits of text-based collaborative
filtering using large language models: Discoveries and
insights. InProceedings of the 34th ACM International
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management,
pp. 1643–1653, 2025.
Li, S., Guo, H., Tang, X., Tang, R., Hou, L., Li, R., and
Zhang, R. Embedding compression in recommender
systems: A survey.ACM Computing Surveys, 56(5):1–21,
2024b.
Lin, J., Dai, X., Xi, Y ., Liu, W., Chen, B., Zhang, H., Liu,
Y ., Wu, C., Li, X., Zhu, C., et al. How can recommender
systems benefit from large language models: A survey.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 43(2):1–47,
2025.
Lin, Z., Ding, H., Hoang, N. T., Kveton, B., Deoras, A.,
and Wang, H. Pre-trained recommender systems: A
causal debiasing perspective. InProceedings of the 17th
ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data
Mining, pp. 424–433, 2024.
Liu, J., Liu, C., Zhou, P., Lv, R., Zhou, K., and Zhang, Y . Is
chatgpt a good recommender? a preliminary study.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.10149, 2023.
Luo, S., He, B., Zhao, H., Shao, W., Qi, Y ., Huang, Y .,
Zhou, A., Yao, Y ., Li, Z., Xiao, Y ., et al. Recranker:
Instruction tuning large language model as ranker for top-
k recommendation.ACM Transactions on Information
Systems, 43(5):1–31, 2025.
Ma, J., Zhao, Z., Yi, X., Chen, J., Hong, L., and Chi, E. H.
Modeling task relationships in multi-task learning with
multi-gate mixture-of-experts. InProceedings of the 24th
ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge
discovery & data mining, pp. 1930–1939, 2018a.
Ma, X., Zhao, L., Huang, G., Wang, Z., Hu, Z., Zhu, X.,
and Gai, K. Entire space multi-task model: An effective
approach for estimating post-click conversion rate. InThe
41st International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research
& Development in Information Retrieval, pp. 1137–1140,
2018b.
Mudigere, D., Hao, Y ., Huang, J., Jia, Z., Tulloch, A., Srid-
haran, S., Liu, X., Ozdal, M., Nie, J., Park, J., et al.
Software-hardware co-design for fast and scalable train-
ing of deep learning recommendation models. InPro-
ceedings of the 49th Annual International Symposium on
Computer Architecture, pp. 993–1011, 2022.
Naumov, M., Mudigere, D., Shi, H.-J. M., Huang, J., Sun-
daraman, N., Park, J., Wang, X., Gupta, U., Wu, C.-J.,
Azzolini, A. G., et al. Deep learning recommendation
model for personalization and recommendation systems.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.00091, 2019.
Ning, L., Liu, L., Wu, J., Wu, N., Berlowitz, D., Prakash, S.,
Green, B., O’Banion, S., and Xie, J. User-llm: Efficient
llm contextualization with user embeddings. InCompan-
ion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025,
pp. 1219–1223, 2025.
Petrov, A. V . and Macdonald, C. Generative sequen-
tial recommendation with gptrec.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.11114, 2023.
Pi, Q., Bian, W., Zhou, G., Zhu, X., and Gai, K. Practice on
long sequential user behavior modeling for click-through
rate prediction. InProceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD
international conference on knowledge discovery & data
mining, pp. 2671–2679, 2019.
Pi, Q., Zhou, G., Zhang, Y ., Wang, Z., Ren, L., Fan, Y ., Zhu,
X., and Gai, K. Search-based user interest modeling with
lifelong sequential behavior data for click-through rate
prediction. InProceedings of the 29th ACM International
Conference on Information & Knowledge Management,
pp. 2685–2692, 2020.
Polyzotis, N., Zinkevich, M., Roy, S., Breck, E., and Whang,
S. Data validation for machine learning.Proceedings of
machine learning and systems, 1:334–347, 2019.
Rajput, S., Mehta, N., Singh, A., Hulikal Keshavan, R.,
Vu, T., Heldt, L., Hong, L., Tay, Y ., Tran, V ., Samost, J.,
et al. Recommender systems with generative retrieval.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:
10299–10315, 2023.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Sculley, D., Holt, G., Golovin, D., Davydov, E., Phillips, T.,
Ebner, D., Chaudhary, V ., Young, M., Crespo, J.-F., and
Dennison, D. Hidden technical debt in machine learn-
ing systems.Advances in neural information processing
systems, 28, 2015.
Sheng, X.-R., Gao, J., Cheng, Y ., Yang, S., Han, S., Deng,
H., Jiang, Y ., Xu, J., and Zheng, B. Joint optimization of
ranking and calibration with contextualized hybrid model.
InProceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 4813–4822,
2023.
Shin, K., Kwak, H., Kim, S. Y ., Ramstr¨om, M. N., Jeong,
J., Ha, J.-W., and Kim, K.-M. Scaling law for recommen-
dation models: Towards general-purpose user representa-
tions. InProceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial
intelligence, volume 37, pp. 4596–4604, 2023.
Si, Z., Guan, L., Sun, Z., Zang, X., Lu, J., Hui, Y ., Cao,
X., Yang, Z., Zheng, Y ., Leng, D., et al. Twin v2: Scal-
ing ultra-long user behavior sequence modeling for en-
hanced ctr prediction at kuaishou. InProceedings of the
33rd ACM International Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management, pp. 4890–4897, 2024.
Sun, F., Liu, J., Wu, J., Pei, C., Lin, X., Ou, W., and Jiang, P.
Bert4rec: Sequential recommendation with bidirectional
encoder representations from transformer. InProceedings
of the 28th ACM international conference on information
and knowledge management, pp. 1441–1450, 2019.
Sun, Z., Si, Z., Zang, X., Zheng, K., Song, Y ., Zhang, X.,
and Xu, J. Large language models enhanced collaborative
filtering. InProceedings of the 33rd ACM International
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management,
pp. 2178–2188, 2024.
Tan, J., Xu, S., Hua, W., Ge, Y ., Li, Z., and Zhang, Y .
Idgenrec: Llm-recsys alignment with textual id learning.
InProceedings of the 47th international ACM SIGIR
conference on research and development in information
retrieval, pp. 355–364, 2024.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I. At-
tention is all you need.Advances in neural information
processing systems, 30, 2017.
Wang, R., Fu, B., Fu, G., and Wang, M. Deep & cross
network for ad click predictions. InProceedings of the
ADKDD’17, pp. 1–7. 2017.
Wu, L., Zheng, Z., Qiu, Z., Wang, H., Gu, H., Shen, T., Qin,
C., Zhu, C., Zhu, H., Liu, Q., et al. A survey on large
language models for recommendation.World Wide Web,
27(5):60, 2024.
Xu, L., Zhang, J., Li, B., Wang, J., Chen, S., Zhao, W. X.,
and Wen, J.-R. Tapping the potential of large language
models as recommender systems: A comprehensive
framework and empirical analysis.ACM Transactions on
Knowledge Discovery from Data, 19(5):1–51, 2025.
Yu, T., Kumar, S., Gupta, A., Levine, S., Hausman, K.,
and Finn, C. Gradient surgery for multi-task learning.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:
5824–5836, 2020.
Yuan, Z., Yuan, F., Song, Y ., Li, Y ., Fu, J., Yang, F., Pan, Y .,
and Ni, Y . Where to go next for recommender systems?
id-vs. modality-based recommender models revisited. In
Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Con-
ference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, pp. 2639–2649, 2023.
Yue, Z., Rabhi, S., Moreira, G. d. S. P., Wang, D., and
Oldridge, E. Llamarec: Two-stage recommendation us-
ing large language models for ranking.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.02089, 2023.
Zhai, J., Liao, L., Liu, X., Wang, Y ., Li, R., Cao, X.,
Gao, L., Gong, Z., Gu, F., He, M., et al. Actions speak
louder than words: Trillion-parameter sequential trans-
ducers for generative recommendations.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17152, 2024.
Zhang, B. et al. Wukong: Towards a scaling law for large-
scale recommendation, 2024a.
Zhang, J., Xie, R., Hou, Y ., Zhao, X., Lin, L., and Wen,
J.-R. Recommendation as instruction following: A large
language model empowered recommendation approach.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 43(5):1–37,
2025.
Zhang, Y . et al. Scaling law of large sequential recommen-
dation models, 2024b.
Zhao, Z., Fan, W., Li, J., Liu, Y ., Mei, X., Wang, Y ., Wen,
Z., Wang, F., Zhao, X., Tang, J., et al. Recommender
systems in the era of large language models (llms).IEEE
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 36
(11):6889–6907, 2024.
Zhou, G., Zhu, X., Song, C., Fan, Y ., Zhu, H., Ma, X., Yan,
Y ., Jin, J., Li, H., and Gai, K. Deep interest network for
click-through rate prediction. InProceedings of the 24th
ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge
discovery & data mining, pp. 1059–1068, 2018.
Zhou, G., Mou, N., Fan, Y ., Pi, Q., Bian, W., Zhou, C.,
Zhu, X., and Gai, K. Deep interest evolution network
for click-through rate prediction. InProceedings of the
AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 33, pp.
5941–5948, 2019.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Zhu, Y ., Wu, L., Guo, Q., Hong, L., and Li, J. Collabo-
rative large language model for recommender systems.
InProceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024, pp.
3162–3172, 2024.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
A. Extended Background
A.1. The Performance–Efficiency Trade-off in Industrial CTR Prediction
The overall design of industrial-grade recommendation systems and their recommendation models almost always revolves
around two goals:performanceandefficiency(Covington et al., 2016; Naumov et al., 2019; Mudigere et al., 2022; Agarwal
et al., 2023; Bai et al., 2025). Performance is not only reflected in the model’s fitting capabilities as measured by metrics
such as AUC and PCOC, but also in its ability to sensitively capture user interest drift and changes in content distribution
under varying traffic patterns(Sheng et al., 2023; Pi et al., 2020). Efficiency, on the other hand, is comprehensively reflected
in the computational power consumption, memory/bandwidth usage, and online inference speed during the training and
inference phases. Among these, training and inference costs are prerequisites for the long-term deployment and continuous
iteration of the model in a real production environment(Naumov et al., 2019; Mudigere et al., 2022; Agarwal et al., 2023).
Although DLRMs have achieved considerable success, it faces bottlenecks in both performance and efficiency(Bai et al.,
2025; Zhang et al., 2024a; Han et al., 2025). On the one hand, DLRMs rely on an experience- and rule-based feature
system, which suffers from the inherent flaw of “strong memory, weak reasoning.” This makes the DLRMs insufficiently
generalizable when dealing with new advertisements, new users, or scenarios requiring logical inference(Cheng et al., 2016;
He et al., 2014; Ma et al., 2018b;a; Wu et al., 2024). At the same time, with the exponential growth of user behavior,
traditional DLRMs suffer from significant information loss in ultra-long sequence modeling and has poor adaptability to
different scenarios(Zhou et al., 2018; Pi et al., 2020; 2019; Zhang et al., 2024b). On the other hand, as the network design of
DLRMs become increasingly complex, the performance improvement of the model shows diminishing returns. To achieve
further performance improvements, it often requires exponentially increased computational costs, making the long-term
deployment and continuous iteration of the model in a real production environment problematic(Zhang et al., 2024a;b;
Mudigere et al., 2022; Han et al., 2025).
A.2. A Taxonomy of LLM-based Recommendation Research
LLMs have recently emerged as a promising direction for recommendation systems, giving rise to a growing line of research
commonly referred to as LLM4Rec(Wu et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2025; Zhao et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024a). The motivation
behind this paradigm shift lies in the inherent limitations of traditional ID-based recommendation models, which often
struggle with semantic understanding, cold-start problems, and cross-domain generalization(Yuan et al., 2023; Li et al.,
2025). LLMs offer the potential to introduce extensive world knowledge, robust reasoning capabilities, and high-quality
textual generation into the recommendation pipeline(Zhang et al., 2025; He et al., 2023). However, integrating LLMs into
industrial-scale systems presents unique challenges, primarily the “ID-Text dilemma”—where high-cardinality sparse IDs do
not map naturally to the continuous token space of LLMs(Tan et al., 2024; Rajput et al., 2023)—and the prohibitive inference
latency of decoder-only architectures in real-time scoring(Yue et al., 2023). Based on recent literature and industrial practices,
LLM4Rec approaches can be systematically categorized into three distinct paradigms:LLM as Recommender,LLM for
Representation, andGenerative Sequential Modeling.
LLM as Recommender.This category explores the direct application of LLM capabilities—such as memory, reasoning,
and zero-shot generalization—to core recommendation tasks including retrieval and ranking(Wu et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2025;
Xu et al., 2025). Methods in this domain typically adapt recommendation data into natural language prompts, leveraging
techniques like Instruction Tuning to align the LLM with recommendation objectives(Zhu et al., 2024; Zhang et al.,
2025; Bao et al., 2023; Luo et al., 2025). While these methods demonstrate promise in explainability and conversational
recommendation, their performance on traditional metrics (e.g., CTR) often falls short of specialized ID-based models(Liu
et al., 2023; Di Palma et al., 2023; Cao et al., 2024). In recommendation scenarios, user behavior is heavily influenced
by implicit feedback and specific context rather than the explicit semantic logic found in natural language; consequently,
general world-knowledge reasoning does not necessarily translate effectively to modeling complex user–item interaction
patterns(Bao et al., 2023; Cao et al., 2024; Zhu et al., 2024). Furthermore, the inference latency remains a significant
bottleneck for real-time industrial deployment(Xu et al., 2025).
LLM for Representation.In this paradigm, LLMs function as sophisticated feature encoders (Lin et al., 2025; Wu et al.,
2024). Instead of performing the ranking directly, the intermediate layers or final output embeddings of the LLM are
extracted and utilized as semantic features to augment the input of traditional recommendation models (Sun et al., 2024; Jia
et al., 2025; Geng et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2024; Ning et al., 2025). This approach aims to enhance the model’s semantic
understanding without bearing the full cost of LLM inference during the serving phase. LLM-derived representations
significantly mitigate the limitations of discrete feature models, particularly regarding the generalization capability for
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
long-tail items and cold-start users/ads (Hou et al., 2022; 2023). However, this methodology faces notable limitations. There
is typically a limited gain on warm items, as the strong collaborative filtering signals derived from abundant historical
interactions often outweigh the semantic benefits provided by the LLM (Hou et al., 2023; Lin et al., 2024). Furthermore,
employing large-scale models for representation learning introduces a high inference cost, which creates substantial latency
and resource bottlenecks during both the offline feature extraction and online serving phases (Lin et al., 2025).
Generative Sequential Modeling.This category represents a structural adaptation rather than a direct semantic application.
It borrows the architectural innovations underlying LLMs—specifically the Transformer architecture, Causal Masking, and
Long-context modeling capabilities—to reconstruct recommendation systems (Vaswani et al., 2017; Kang & McAuley,
2018; Sun et al., 2019). These models(such as GR models) treat user history as a sequence and the next item prediction as a
generative task, similar to next token prediction (Kang & McAuley, 2018; Petrov & Macdonald, 2023; Han et al., 2025). By
employing generative sequential modeling techniques and combining them with discrete features that precisely characterize
user historical behavior, these models have shown significant potential (Han et al., 2025). A key observation in this domain
is the emergence of “scaling laws” within recommendation systems, where model performance metrics improve predictably
as the sequence length and model capacity increase (Shin et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2024b), mirroring the trajectory seen in
NLP.
A comparative overview of the three LLM4Rec paradigms is presented in Table 4, highlighting their core mechanisms, key
strengths, and primary limitations.
Table 4.Comparison of LLM4Rec Paradigms.
Category Core Mechanism Key Strength Primary Limitation
LLM as Recommender Instruction tuning /
prompting for ranking
Explainability,
Zero-shot generalization
High latency,
ineffective interaction modeling
LLM for Representation Feature Encoder
(Extracting embeddings)
Cold-start handling,
Semantic understanding
Limited gain on warm items,
high inference cost
Generative Seq. Modeling Transformer decoder,
next token prediction
Scaling laws,
high capacity
High inference latency,
high resource consumption
A.3. Limitations of GR in Performance
Existing GR models often inherit NLP-style causal Transformers with minimal adaptation to recommender logs, implicitly
assuming that user history can be represented as a homogeneous token stream. In practice, recommendation data are
inherentlyheterogeneous: events comprise multiple fields (e.g., item, context, query, creator), and user trajectories interleave
distinct behavior types (e.g., exposure, click, like, skip, dwell). A naive serialization pipeline typically collapses this
structured record into a single sequence of item IDs (or flattened tokens), whichdiscards action semantics—the critical
distinction between what the user was shown and how the user responded.
This structural mismatch leads to a performance bottleneck: the model conflates semantically different interactions, dilutes
supervision signals, and learns spurious correlations (e.g., treating exposures as implicit positives or mixing weak/strong
feedback). As a result, even with larger models and longer contexts, GR may underperform in industrial CTR settings
where fine-grained behavior semantics and cross-field interactions are decisive, highlighting the need for action-aware,
heterogeneity-preserving sequence modeling rather than direct NLP-style tokenization.
B. Extended Related Work
B.1. Limitations of Emerging Generative Ranking Models
While GR models have successfully introduced the scaling laws of LLMs into recommendation systems, their direct
application to industrial CTR prediction faces distinct structural and optimization challenges.
Mitigation of Distribution Skew in Sequence Packing.To improve training efficiency with variable-length user sequences,
standard GR models often employ sequence packing techniques borrowed from NLP (e.g., concatenating multiple short
sequences). However, unlike NLP where samples are generally Independent and Identically Distributed (I.I.D.), packing in
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
recommendation systems groups multiple interactions from thesame userinto a single training instance to maintain context.
This creates a severe distribution skew, where a mini-batch is dominated by highly correlated samples from a few users.
This correlation causes the model—especially the sparse embedding parameters—to overfit specific user identities rather
than learning generalizable interaction patterns.
Action heterogeneity.Existing GR models often treat user history as a homogeneous token stream, neglecting the inherent
heterogeneity of recommendation data. This reliance on naive serialization discards critical action semantics—distinguishing
what was shown from how the user responded—thereby diluting supervision signals and limiting performance in complex
industrial scenarios (as discussed in Appendix A.3).
Explicit Modeling of Relative Action Signals.Standard GR models rely on the vanilla Scaled Dot-Product Attention, often
supplemented only by absolute or relative positional encodings. While effective for capturing sequential order (as emphasized
in LONGER), this approach treats the nature of the interaction as implicit. It fails to explicitly differentiate between varying
feedback signals (e.g., “clicked” vs. “viewed” vs. “purchased”) and their relative timing in a query-dependent manner.
B.2. Comparative Discussion with Existing Ranking Models
To position GRAB within the evolving landscape of recommendation systems, we provide a qualitative comparison against
two primary categories of existing models: traditional DLRMs and emerging GR approaches in Table 5.
Table 5.Comparison of DLRM, HSTU, LONGER, and GRAB based on Key Dimensions from the Paper
Dimension DLRMs HSTU LONGER GRAB
Core Architecture Embedding + MLP +
Target Attention (DIN/SIM)
Pure Transformer
(Generative Ranking)
Transformer-based
(Optimized for Long Seq)End-to-End Generative Framework
Feature Interaction Manual Cross Features
& MLP / Gating
Standard Self-Attention
(Global)
Standard Self-Attention
(Long Context)
Causal Action-aware
Multi-channel Attention (CamA)
Heterogeneous FeaturesConcatenation & Flattening
(Fixed-length vector)
Homogeneous Tokens
(Often redundant static info)
Homogeneous Tokens
(Similar to HSTU)
Heterogeneous Tokens
(Partial History / Full Candidate)
Action Semantic ModelingImplicit or via
Engineered Features
Implicit
(Learned via sequence order)
Implicit
(Focus on sequence length)
Action-aware RAB
(Explicit Relative Bias)
Training Strategy Standard Supervised
(Pointwise BCE)
Autoregressive / Next-Token
(Suffers from Dist. Skew)
Autoregressive
(Standard GR Training)
Sequence-Then-Sparse (STS)
(Decoupled Optimization)
Scaling Potential Diminishing Returns
(Saturated Performance)
High
(Follows Scaling Laws)
High
(Scaling in Sequence Length)
High & Linear
(No saturation observed)
C. Detailed Architecture and Data Flow of GRAB
C.1. Sparse Feature Layer
In the sparse feature layer, GRAB expands user u’s raw behavior sequence and the candidate ad sequence into event-level
representations, preserving their original temporal order to form a structured, time-ordered event sequence:

Sbeh
t
	Tu
t=1 ,

Sad
i
	Nu
i=1 (8)
where Tu denotes the length of user u’s behavior history,Nu denotes the number of candidate advertisements for user u.
GRAB takes user behavior history and candidate ads as input sequences. Specifically, the t-th behavior event Sbeh
t consists
of user attributes U, context C, and behavior attributes B, while the i-th candidate ad Sad
i consists of context C and item
attributesA, as follows:
Sbeh
t =
 
Uu, Ct, Bt

, S ad
i =
 
Ai, Ci

(9)
Following the discrete feature engineering standard of DLRMs, we apply a structured expansion function Φ to transform
each event into a fixed multi-field representation. Subsequently, each field value is mapped to a discrete ID via a sparse
PSTable Π. The event-level representations of the raw behavior sequence and the candidate ad sequence can be obtained as:
xbeh
t = Π
 
Φ(Sbeh
t )

, t= 1, . . . , T u
xad
i = Π
 
Φ(Sad
i )

, i= 1, . . . , N u
(10)
15

===== PAGE 16 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
C.2. Dense Tokenizer
Unlike the DLRM approach, which concatenates all field embeddings into a fixed-length flattened vector, GRAB preserves
the event structure by aggregating field embeddings within each event into a single event token. This yields a time-ordered
token sequence that is fed into a Transformer to capture long-range behavioral dependencies and interest drift. Given the
structured discrete ID sequences from Section C.1, GRAB converts each event into a dense token for Transformer-based
sequential modeling. Specifically, each event is first transformed into a vector through a field-wise embedding lookup
followed by a multi-field fusion process, as follows:
vt = Emb(xt), v i = Emb(xi) (11)
Subsequently, the token representation for each event is generated by the GateMLP module, which consists of an MLP and a
Gate layer, formulated as:
e=GateMLP
 
v)∈R dmodel
Ebeh ={e beh
t }Tu
t=1,E ad ={e ad
i }Nu
i=1.
(12)
C.3. Autoregressive-like Sequence Modeling Layer
Taking the output (Ebeh and Ead) from the previous dense layer as input, we feed it into the sequence modeling layer(for
more details about this layer, please see Section 3.3) to capture sequential dependencies. Let Z denote the final output
representation of the sequence layer:
Z= SeqLayer(E beh,E ad).(13)
Finally, the output of the sequence modeling layer is fed into a logistic head to yield the CTR prediction. The model is
trained to minimize the binary cross-entropy loss:
ˆy=σ
 
w⊤Z+b

∈(0,1),
LBCE =−

ylog ˆy+ (1−y) log(1−ˆy)

.
(14)
D. In-Depth Analysis of STS Training
While sequence packing dramatically improves computational resource utilization by eliminating padding, it introduces a
non-trivial optimization challenge known as Distribution Skew. In this section, we provide the theoretical justification for
the proposed STS training paradigm, detail its mathematical formulation, and discuss how it reconciles the learning space
inconsistency between stages.
D.1. Distribution Skew
Standard Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) relies on the assumption that samples within a mini-batch are I.I.D.. Formally,
for a loss functionL, the gradientgcomputed on a batchBis an unbiased estimator of the true gradient:
E[gB] =∇L,Var(g B) = σ2
|B| (15)
where|B|is the batch size.
In sequence packing, we form a packed mini-batch Bpack by concatenating multiple actions from the same user u into a
single training instance (or a user-dominated batch) to avoid padding waste. While efficient, this construction makes samples
within Bpack highly correlated: for i, j∈ B pack, Cov(xi, xj)≫0 , because they share the same user id, static context, and
long-term interests. As a result, the effective batch size is substantially reduced and the variance of the stochastic gradient
estimator increases, yielding noisier and less stable updates.
This issue is most damaging for the sparse embedding table Φ. Since a packed batch repeatedly contains the same user
features (e.g., user id=123 appears L times along the packed sequence), the update for that single embedding vector is
amplified by repeated contributions:
∆Φu ∝
LX
t=1
∇Lt.(16)
16

===== PAGE 17 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Such oversized, user-specific updates encourage Φ to memorize individual trajectories rather than learn generalizable
interaction patterns. Meanwhile, the dense sequence model (e.g., Transformer) suffers from batch-to-batch distribution
skew: consecutive packed batches may be dominated by different users (User A → User B), causing abrupt shifts in inputs
and gradients, which hinders stable convergence of sequential reasoning parameters.
D.2. Formalization of STS Stages
To mitigate the distribution skew, STS decouples the optimization into two orthogonal objectives: relational reasoning
(Dense) and feature representation (Sparse). The algorithm flow of STS is shown in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1Two-Stage Alternating Training Strategy
Require:Training datasetD, Learning rateη
1:Initialize:Dense tokenizerθ cont, Causal Transformerθ tr, Sparse Embedding TableΦ
2:whilenot convergeddo
3:// Stage I: Sequence Modeling (Sequence Phase)
4:Sample packed user sequences batchZ= (x hist, xcand)∼ D
5:FreezeSparse Embedding TableΦ
6:Compute sequence output:
7:ˆy seq ←f seq(Z;θ cont, θtr,Φ)
8:Compute sequence loss:
9:L seq ←BCE(ˆyseq, y)
10:Update dense modules:
11:{θ cont, θtr} ←SGD(∇ {θcont,θtr}Lseq)
12:// Stage II: Sparse Feature Learning (Sparse Phase)
13:Sample independent user-ad batch(x beh, xad)∼ D
14:FreezeSequential modules{θ cont, θtr}
15:Compute aggregated features (breaking distribution skewness):
16:s←Agg({Φ(x beh
t )})∥Φ(x ad)
17:Compute sparse phase prediction:
18:ˆy sp ←f sp(s)
19:Update sparse embeddings:
20:Φ←SGD(∇ ΦLsp)
21:end while
D.3. Discussion: A Pre-training & Transfer Perspective
The STS paradigm can be viewed through the lens of pre-training and transfer learning. Stage I serves as a sequential
pre-training step that encodes interest evolution into the dense space, while Stage II transfers these insights back to the target
sparse feature space for fine-tuning. Although this non-end-to-end mode might introduce a subtle objective inconsistency
between stages, our results demonstrate that the benefit of resolving distribution skew far outweighs the cost of misalignment.
STS ensures that the end-to-end sequence predictor (Stage I) consistently validates against the optimal embeddings refined
in Stage II, providing a pragmatic path to balance efficiency and generalization in large-scale recommendation systems.
E. System Deployment Details
E.1. Platform Architecture
As illustrated in Fig. 8, the proposed system is implemented within a comprehensive Online Advertising System that
operates as a closed-loop platform integration of Online Services and Offline Services. The architecture is designed to
handle high-concurrency requests while maintaining model freshness through continuous updates.
E.1.1. ONLINESERVING
The online serving component processes user interactions in real-time. The workflow initiates with a Page View (PV)
Request, which sequentially passes throughmatchingandrankingphases to select appropriate advertisements.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
The core of the ranking mechanism involves a CTR Prediction module that relies on two primary inputs:
• User Representation:A user model processes historical tokens and maintains a KV-cache to efficiently manage state.
•Ad Representation:The system generates ad tokens corresponding to candidate advertisements.
This process results in the display of ads, where user interactions are captured in the online behavior log, consisting of
impression logs and action logs.
E.1.2. OFFLINETRAINING ANDFEEDBACKLOOP
The offline component ensures the model evolves with user behavior. The process involves:
• Data Collection and Storage:Logs are collected and stored in behavior storage, which organizes data into User
(user id, gender), AD (ad id, brand), and Context (location, device, behavior) categories.
•Feature Engineering:The system performs sparse feature engineering on the collected logs.
•Training:Training data is grouped by user ID (uid) to facilitate model offline training.
• Deployment:Updated models are pushed back to the online environment via an hourly release mechanism, updating
the CTR prediction and user model components.
E.2. Deployment Constraints and Optimization
The system, referred to as GRAB, has been deployed in a feed ad ranking system handling billions of daily requests. The
deployment addresses several critical engineering challenges distinguishable from conventional DLRMs:
• Computational Complexity:Unlike memory-bound DLRMs, GR in this context is compute-bound. This is primarily
attributed to the quadratic complexity (O(L2)) of Transformer self-attention mechanisms required for processing long
sequences.
• Latency Requirements:The system’s performance is bound by critical latency thresholds defined in the Service Level
Agreements (SLAs).
To meet these demands, the deployment utilizes a co-designed architecture incorporating data compression, hierarchical
storage, and disaggregated serving.
E.3. Data Infrastructure and Training Optimization
User-Centric Data Layout and Compression.Traditional industrial pipelines use time-partitioned logs, necessitating
expensive global shuffling. We transitioned to a User Slice storage architecture, where user behavior logs are pre-aggregated
by User ID into contiguous physical file blocks. To further reduce I/O overhead, we upgraded from standard Gzip text
storage to a Binary + LZ4 compression scheme. The binary format combined with LZ4 (which is highly efficient for
repetitive user behavior patterns) reduced storage costs by 12% compared to Gzip and decreased decoding latency by 70%,
enabling the system to stream complete user histories with near-linear scalability.
Hierarchical Parameter Server (PaddleBox).To handle terabyte-scale embedding tables, we utilized the training
framework with a three-tier storage hierarchy:
•L1 (GPU HBM):Stores hot embeddings for the current micro-batch.
•L2 (CPU DRAM):Buffers warm parameters.
• L3 (SSD):Utilizes NVMe SSDs for massive long-tail feature embeddings. An intelligent prefetching engine asyn-
chronously moves parameters between tiers, masking SSD I/O latency.
18

===== PAGE 19 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
Online Advertising System
AD ListPV Request Matching Ranking
Historical Tokens
CTR Prediction
AD Tokens
Online Behavior Log 
Impression Log
Action Log
Sparse Feature
Engineering
Train Data 
(Group by uid)
Train DataTrain DataSparse Feature
Model
Offline Training
Hourly Release
Collect Logs
gender
User
user_id brand
AD
ad_id device
Context
location behavior
Behavior Storage
Recent
Impression
Online 
Services
Offline 
Services
KV-cacheUser Model
Figure 8.Overview of an online advertising CTR system with an online–offline closed loop. Online services handle PV requests via
matching and ranking, and feed the CTR predictor with user-side historical tokens (maintained by a user model with KV-cache) and
candidate ad tokens; user interactions are continuously logged as impression/action logs. Offline services collect these logs, apply sparse
feature engineering, group training samples by user ID, and perform offline training; updated models are released (e.g., hourly) back to
online.
Handling Long-Tail Sequences.Real-world user history lengths exhibit a heavy-tailed distribution, where the top 5%
of sequences can cause “Out Of Memory” (OOM). We implemented an Inverse Sliding Window strategy during training.
Instead of random slicing, sequences are sliced from the most recent action backwards. This prioritizes recent user interests
and ensures that extreme long-tail data does not destabilize GPU memory usage.
E.4. High-Performance Inference Architecture
Disaggregated Serving and Parallelism.We adopted a disaggregated serving architecture using a User Interest Center
(UIC). The UIC asynchronously computes and updates the Transformer’s Key-Value (KV) cache triggered by user actions.
Crucially, we implemented Parallel Material Recall, where the user’s historical sequence encoding overlaps with the
candidate generation (ad retrieval) phase. By the time candidate ads are retrieved, the user’s dense state is already computed,
significantly hiding latency.
KV-Cache Reuse and M-FALCON.To avoid re-computing the user history for every candidate ad, we integrated the
M-FALCON algorithm (Zhai et al., 2024). It utilizes a broadcast-attention mechanism where the fetched user KV cache
is shared across a micro-batch of candidate items, reducing the marginal inference complexity per item from quadratic to
linear.
Operator Fusion and Mixed Precision.To maximize throughput on GPUs, we employed aggressive operator fusion
(e.g., fusing Gemm + Bias + LayerNorm), which reduced kernel launch overheads and improved latency by roughly 43%.
Furthermore, rather than simple INT8 quantization which may degrade accuracy, we adopted a Mixed Precision strategy:
utilizing TF32 for Transformer matrix operations to accelerate computation and FP16 for fully connected layers, achieving a
balance between 28% performance gain and negligible precision loss.
E.5. Data Consistency
A major challenge in GRs is the Freshness Gap (Train-Serve Skew). We addressed this by implementing a streaming data
pipeline based on Flink & TableStore. We utilized a Global Strictly Incremental ID mechanism to ensure strict ordering of
user actions across distributed nodes. This allows the inference engine to fetch the exact state of the user corresponding
to the training checkpoint, reducing data synchronization delay from minutes to seconds and ensuring the model always
predicts based on the most consistent context.
19

===== PAGE 20 =====

GRAB: An LLM-Inspired Sequence-First Click-Through Rate Prediction Modeling Paradigm
F. Discussion
F.1. Limitations and Challenges
Operational Complexity of Two-Stage Training.A primary limitation of GRAB lies in the operational overhead introduced
by the Sequence Then Sparse (STS) training paradigm. While STS effectively resolves the distribution skew caused by
sequence packing and stabilizes the optimization of dense versus sparse parameters, it inherently complicates the model
iteration pipeline. Unlike standard DLRMs that support continuous, single-stage online learning, STS requires a decoupled
scheduling of sequence modeling (freezing sparse features) and sparse feature learning (freezing dense parameters). This
increases the engineering maintenance cost and introduces latency in incorporating fresh feature embeddings into the dense
sequential context, potentially affecting the model’s responsiveness to emerging trends in real-time environments.
Compute-Bound Hardware Constraints.The shift from DLRMs to Generative Ranking marks a fundamental transition
from memory-bound to compute-bound workloads in recommendation infrastructure. Although we mitigated inference
latency via optimizations like Action-aware RAB and KV-cache reuse (Appendix E.4), the quadratic complexity of attention
mechanisms—even when bounded by sliding windows—remains computationally heavier than the MLP layers of traditional
models. Scaling GRAB to significantly longer sequences (e.g., user lifetimes spanning months) or deploying it on edge
devices with limited compute capacity poses a significant challenge, necessitating further research into linear attention
mechanisms or more aggressive token pruning strategies specifically tailored for recommendation data.
Interpretability of Generative Signals.While the Multi-channel Attention mechanism allows us to inspect which behavior
subsets contribute to a prediction, the end-to-end generative nature of GRAB can obscure the precise “why” behind a ranking
decision compared to feature-engineered linear models. Understanding whether a prediction is driven by short-term intent
(sequential reasoning) or long-term habit (sparse memorization) remains a non-trivial task, which is critical for debugging
bad cases in commercial systems.
F.2. Future Directions
Towards Multimodal Generative Ranking.Currently, GRAB operates on discretized ID tokens derived from categorical
features. However, the architecture’s Heterogeneous Token design (Section 3.3.2) is naturally extensible to other modalities.
A promising future direction is to integrate raw modal tokens—such as image patches (Visual Tokens) or ad textual
descriptions (Language Tokens)—directly into the interaction sequence. By leveraging GRAB’s strong sequence modeling
capabilities, the model could learn semantic alignment between visual cues and user behaviors end-to-end, overcoming the
information loss inherent in pre-extracted ID features and enabling true multimodal CTR prediction.
Unified Generative Representation Across Domains.Finally, the “pre-training & fine-tuning” paradigm common in
NLP has yet to be fully realized in industrial recommendation. We envision extending GRAB to learn a Universal User
Representation by pre-training on diverse behavior logs across multiple business scenarios (e.g., Home Feed, Search, and
Short Video). A unified GRAB model could transfer learned sequential patterns from data-rich domains to cold-start
scenarios, effectively solving the “data silo” problem prevalent in large-scale platforms.
Foundation for Agent-based Recommender Systems.GRAB’s ability to model the transition probabilities of user states
(st − →st+1) positions it as a powerful “World Model” or User Simulator for future agent-based recommendation systems.
By accurately predicting not just the next click, but the evolution of user interests over time, GRAB can serve as the
environment model for Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents. This would allow the system to move beyond myopic CTR
optimization toward maximizing Long-Term Value (LTV) or user satisfaction by simulating how current recommendations
influence future user trajectories.
20